Apache kafka integration (#3760)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/integrations/apache-kafka.md

---
title: Integrate Apache Kafka with Timescale Cloud 

> excerpt: Learn how to integrate Apache Kafka with Timescale Cloud to manage and analyze streaming data efficiently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: Apache Kafka is a distributed event streaming platform used for high-performance data pipelines. Learn how to integrate Apache Kafka with Timescale Cloud to manage and analyze streaming data
```

Reviewer 2: Updated.

products: [cloud, self_hosted]
keywords: [Apache Kafka, integrations]
---

import IntegrationPrereqs from "versionContent/_partials/_integration-prereqs.mdx";

# Integrate Apache Kafka with $CLOUD_LONG

[Apache Kafka][apache-kafka] is a distributed event streaming platform used for high-performance data pipelines, 

> streaming analytics, and data integration. [Apache Kafka Connect][kafka-connect] is a tool for scalably and reliably 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
streaming analytics, and data integration. [Apache Kafka Connect][kafka-connect] is a tool to scalably and reliably 
```

> streaming data between Apache Kafka® and other data systems. Kafka Connect an ecosystem of pre-written and maintained 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stream data between Apache Kafka® and other data systems. Kafka Connect is an ecosystem of pre-written and maintained 
```

Kafka Producers (source connectors) and Kafka Consumers (sink connectors) for data products and platforms like 
databases and message brokers.

This guide explains how to set up Kafka and Kafka Connect to stream data from a Kafka topic into your $SERVICE_LONG.

## Prerequisites

<IntegrationPrereqs />

- [Java8 or higher][java-installers] to run Apache Kafka

## Install and configure Apache Kafka

To install and configure Apache Kafka:

<Procedure>

1. **Extract the Kafka binaries to a local folder**

    ```bash
    curl https://dlcdn.apache.org/kafka/3.9.0/kafka_2.13-3.9.0.tgz | tar -xzf - 
    cd kafka_2.13-3.9.0
    ```
   
1. **Configure and run Apache Kafka**

   ```bash
   KAFKA_CLUSTER_ID="$(bin/kafka-storage.sh random-uuid)"
   ./bin/kafka-storage.sh format --standalone -t $KAFKA_CLUSTER_ID -c config/kraft/reconfig-server.properties
   ./bin/kafka-server-start.sh config/kraft/reconfig-server.properties
   ```
    Use the `-daemon` flag to run this process in the background.
   
1. **Create Kafka topics**

>    In another Terminal window, call `kafka-topics.sh` and create the following topics:

Reviewer: I didn't realize you have to do this and the following steps from the kafka root directory - worth specifying

   - `accounts`: publishes JSON messages that are consumed by the timescale-sink connector and inserted into your $SERVICE_LONG. 

>    - `deadletter`: a dead letter queue stores messages that cause errors and Kafka Connect workers cannot process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `deadletter`: stores messages that cause errors and that Kafka Connect workers cannot process. 
```

   ```
   
1. **Start Kafka Connect**

    ```bash
   export CLASSPATH=`pwd`/plugins/camel-postgresql-sink-kafka-connector/*
   ./bin/connect-standalone.sh config/connect-standalone.properties
   ```

   Use the `-daemon` flag to run this process in the background.

1. **Verify Kafka Connect is running**

    In yet another another Terminal window, run the following command:  
    ```bash
    curl http://localhost:8083
    ```
    You see something like:
    ```bash
    {"version":"3.9.0","commit":"a60e31147e6b01ee","kafka_cluster_id":"J-iy4IGXTbmiALHwPZEZ-A"}
    ```

</Procedure>

## Create a table in your $SERVICE_LONG to ingest Kafka events

To prepare your $SERVICE_LONG for Kafka integration:

<Procedure>

1. ** [Connect][connect] to your $SERVICE_LONG **

1. **Create a table to ingest Kafka events**

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE accounts (created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
    name TEXT,
    city TEXT);
   ```

1. **Turn the table into a hypertable**

   ```sql
   SELECT create_hypertable('accounts', 'created_at');
   ```

</Procedure>

## Create the $CLOUD_LONG sink

To create a $CLOUD_LONG sink in Apache Kafka: 

<Procedure>

1.  **Create the connection configuration**
 

>        1. Write the following configuration to `config/timescale-standalone-sink.properties`, then update the `<properties>` with your [connection details][connection-info].

Reviewer: I think it should be made clear that you create this file in the `kafka root/config` directory.

Reviewer 2: Done

          errors.tolerance=all
          errors.deadletterqueue.topic.name=deadletter
          tasks.max=10
          value.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter
          key.converter=org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter
          topics=accounts
          camel.kamelet.postgresql-sink.databaseName=<dbname>
          camel.kamelet.postgresql-sink.username=<user>
          camel.kamelet.postgresql-sink.password=<password>
          camel.kamelet.postgresql-sink.serverName=<host>
          camel.kamelet.postgresql-sink.serverPort=<port>
          camel.kamelet.postgresql-sink.query=INSERT INTO accounts (name,city) VALUES (:#name,:#city)
          ```
       1. Restart Kafka Connect with the new configuration:
          ```bash
          export CLASSPATH=`pwd`/plugins/camel-postgresql-sink-kafka-connector/*
          ./bin/connect-standalone.sh config/connect-standalone.properties config/timescale-standalone-sink.properties
          ```

1. **Test the connection**

   To see your sink, query the `/connectors` route in a GET request:

   ```bash
   curl -X GET http://localhost:8083/connectors
   ```
   You see:

>    ```bash

Reviewer: To nitpick, I see `["timescale-standalone-sink"]%  `

   #["timescale-sink"]
   ```

</Procedure>

## Test the integration with $CLOUD_LONG

To test this integration, send some messages onto the `accounts` topic. You can do this using the kafkacat or kcat utility.

<Procedure>

1. **In the terminal running `kafka-console-producer.sh` enter the following json strings**

   ```bash
   {"name":"Lola","city":"Copacabana"} 
   {"name":"Holly","city":"Miami"}
   {"name":"Jolene","city":"Tennessee"}
   {"name":"Barbara Ann ","city":"California"} 
   ```
   Look in your terminal running `kafka-console-consumer` to see the messages being processed.

1. **Query your $SERVICE_LONG for all rows in the `accounts` table**

>    You see all messages appear:

Reviewer: Duplicate sentence
